Assignment #1: Expectations for this Semester

1.) Within the 3 years of studying in college, several programming languages has 
been introduced to us. And as far as I can remember, the first programming language 
that I encountered was Python.  My experience in Python was hard, as someone who 
doesn’t have a background and is first time learning the programming. But with 
the help and patience of our instructor Sir Christian Aquino, we had the 
opportunity to learned its fundamentals from setting up our environment to 
writing our first program and understanding syntax, control flow, variables, 
data types, operators, functions, and etc. Unfortunately, I still don’t have an 
experience for backend development or Node.js, but I am very much willing to 
learn this because I want to challenge myself. 

2.) 2. With this course, I am aiming to learn and understand how to do a 
backend development. Starting with its fundamentals including different 
frameworks and open-source programming languages to use, to its applications 
and best practices that will help me enhance my expertise. 
I hope to learn every skill that I can apply when developing a backend such as 
building APIs, using Node.js, and Express because I want to help out on our 
ongoing project that has a lot of backend development aspect. Furthermore, I am 
interested in database management aspect of backend development, which creates 
storage solutions for large amounts of information in application databases. 
Specifically, I want to understand how to interact with the database using 
MongoDB and PostgreSQL. I’m still unfamiliar with these technologies, so I am 
looking forward in understanding and discussing them. Lastly, even though I am 
not a programmer, I am certain that this will definitely help me improve myself, 
my future career, and studies because it will provide me a background knowledge 
about the backend development that I can utilize for future use, and as I take 
this as an opportunity to be brave enough, challenging myself in new things that 
I never expect myself to dive into. 

3.) 3. Honestly, I think the most difficult aspect for me throughout this course, 
would be the application or the coding part of backend development since there 
are a lot of logic to keep in mind which includes working with databases, 
building APIs, error handling, and the such. To overcome these challenges, 
my plan is to focus, avoid distractions, take notes of important details, listen 
actively, practice coding, and advanced learning. For the improvement of the 
topics, I recommend to have a summarization of what have been discussed in the 
whole session, highlight key points that could help the students what to focus 
on, and a recap or recall of what have been discussed in the previous session to 
reinforce understanding and retention. I also want to add a part where we 
can have a regular coding reviews and pair programming sessions that can provide 
practical experience. These strategies will help me to keep up with the 
the complexities of backend development. 

4.)4. I think I can succeed in this course if the instructor can break down 
complex concepts into smaller, manageable parts with a clear, step-by-step 
explanations. A instructor who provide timely and constructive feedback on my 
assignments and projects to help me understand my strengths and areas for 
improvement, and who uses engaging and diverse teaching materials such as 
real-world examples, and hands-on projects. And accessible for questions and 
additional guidance through office hours or discussion forums, incorporate 
practical applications and real-world scenarios to make the learning experience 
relevant and applicable. A instructor who always have patience to his students.
